How a simple web application can save your business millions
Home
Projects
Pricing
Blog
About
Contact
CZ
EN
DE
Book a consultation
CZ
EN
DE
Home
Projects
Pricing
Blog
About
Contact
Book a consultation
💬
Enquiry
← Back to blog
NOTES
How a simple web application can save your business millions
Tired of dealing with manual processes in your business? From human error to inefficient resource allocation, it's time to let go of the old ways and embrace the future. A web application can save your business millions by streamlining communications, automating tasks, and allocating resources efficiently.
Web applications have become an essential tool for businesses of all sizes, enabling them to streamline operations, increase customer engagement, and increase bottom lines.
But what exactly is a web application? A web application is basically a program or software that uses a web browser as its interface, allowing users to perform various tasks and interact with the software or programs over the Internet. The benefits of a web application are numerous - not only do they increase efficiency and productivity, but they also reduce costs, increase customer engagement, and provide a global reach of information inside and outside the company. With so many benefits, it's no wonder that businesses of all industries and sizes rely on web applications to stay competitive in today's digital age.
Examples of the most successful web applications
The success of web apps like Amazon, Facebook and Shopify is truly astounding. Amazon , which started as an online bookstore, has grown to become the largest company in the world. With hundreds of millions of active users, Amazon sells almost everything and makes billions of dollars. Facebook has changed the way we communicate. It was originally created only for Harvard students, but it soon spread worldwide, gaining billions of monthly active users and earning tens of billions of dollars. Shopify , an all-in-one e-commerce platform, enables businesses to sell their products online. With more than a million businesses in 175 countries using its platform, Shopify is set to make $3.7 billion in 2022.
But let's stick to the ground more. It's really amazing how much these web apps have made. But what can a web application do for your business?
How a web app can save your business millions
You can see how much my app saved for Toyota in this project of mine .
Web applications have revolutionized the way businesses operate by offering various benefits that not only increase efficiency but also save costs and improve customer engagement. With a custom web application, your business can streamline its operations and significantly reduce time and resources spent on manual and repetitive tasks.
1) Automation and accuracy
One of the main advantages of a web application is automation, which reduces the likelihood of human error. By automating repetitive tasks, the web application eliminates the need for manual intervention, saving time and increasing the level of accuracy.
2) Simplification of communication
A web application can facilitate communication between departments by providing real-time data to all stakeholders. This level of transparency and communication efficiency can form the cornerstone of a company's successful operation.
3) Efficient allocation of resources
A well-designed web application can help ensure better resource allocation, leading to cost savings. By automating repetitive tasks, employees can focus on more valuable tasks that require their specific expertise.
4) Higher productivity and revenue
A well-designed web application can help increase productivity while providing a better customer experience through real-time data and improved communication. What's more, automating repetitive tasks can also free up employee time to tackle more valuable and profitable projects.
5) Positive impact on customer satisfaction
By streamlining communication and providing real-time information, a web application can help businesses offer a better customer experience. This leads to improved customer satisfaction and ultimately increased revenue.
In conclusion, a custom web application can be a game changer for businesses, offering unmatched benefits that cannot be found anywhere else.
Web application development process
The web application development process involves a series of steps that ensure that the final product meets business requirements and meets the needs of users. It is important for developers to follow every step to create a reliable, scalable and user-friendly web application.
Defining requirements is the first step in the process. In this phase, the developer and the business team work together to identify user requirements, features, target audience and budget. The emphasis is on understanding what the web application will do, who will use it, and why. Clarity of requirements determines project timeline and cost.
User interface (UI) design is the second step. It involves creating a visual representation of the web application and the behavior of the application. The emphasis is on making the application user-friendly, intuitive and easy to use.
The development of the backend (functional part) is the third step. It includes coding the functions of the web application, creating the database and integrating it with the frontend (visual part). The developer ensures that the web application is scalable, secure and performance optimized.
Testing and launching is the last step. It involves testing the web application to ensure that it meets the business requirements, is user-friendly and works properly. The developer must also ensure that the web application is optimized for different devices, browsers and operating systems.
After testing is complete, the web application can be launched for public or internal use. Having a web development team to ensure the success of your project is very important.
Now that you know the process involved, the next step is to choose an application vendor. You can choose a company that is experienced and can provide expertise in every step of the process. However, if we are talking about a relatively small application, you can look for an experienced programmer.
The future of web applications
Web applications have become an integral part of our lives and their demand will only increase in the future. New technologies such as artificial intelligence, blockchain and cloud computing are transforming web applications, making them more efficient and secure. Interactive and great user experiences are also becoming commonplace.
As businesses realize the benefits of web applications, they are expected to increase significantly in the coming years, making them more accessible and user-friendly than ever before.
Conclusion
In this day and age where a strong online presence is essential for businesses to succeed, a web application can be a game changer. With benefits ranging from increased efficiency and productivity to greater customer engagement and global reach, a web app can save your business millions. It may seem difficult to get started, but with a solid development process, your business can reap rewards.
The future of web applications looks promising with increasing demand and new technologies providing interactive and immersive user experiences. Don't miss the opportunity to take your business to the next level.
About the author
Ondřej Kriška
I build custom websites and applications. On my own, on my own code.
I spent eighteen years in Toyota logistics. Today I build websites, e-shops and custom applications for small and mid-sized companies. I quote the price up front and you deal with me directly.
LinkedIn
Write to Ondřej
Dealing with a website or an application?
Tell me what you need. I will get back to you within two working days and tell you whether I can help.
Write to Ondřej
I help entrepreneurs succeed in the online world
Book a free consultation
Home
Projects
Pricing
Blog
About
Contact
© 2026 ONDRAWEB — All rights reserved.
+420 728 697 712
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Let's talk
Free consultation — no commitment, no registration.
{ if (!val) { $refs.video.pause(); $refs.video.currentTime = 0; playing = false; } })"
>
Pick a consultation slot
Free. No commitment.
Mind a few cookies?
I only measure a few numbers about what works on the site. No data selling.
See the cookie policy .
Decline
Accept all
✕