How much does a website cost
Home
Projects
Pricing
Blog
About
Contact
CZ
EN
DE
Book a consultation
CZ
EN
DE
Home
Projects
Pricing
Blog
About
Contact
Book a consultation
💬
Enquiry
← Back to blog
NOTES
How much does a website cost
Get an overview of website prices. Dive into our comprehensive guide to find out what factors affect price, from design to functionality. Get insight into how to optimize your budget and what to expect from an online presence investment.
If you're thinking about creating or redesigning a website, one of the first questions you'll probably ask yourself is - "How much will it cost me?". The answer is not as simple as it might seem. The price of a website can be affected by many factors. In this article, I will try to clarify what can affect the final price and how you can better prepare for this process.
1. Prices according to the type of website
1.1 Personal websites:
A simple blog where you share your thoughts can cost from a few hundred to 1,500 € , depending on the design and features.
There are also " free " web platforms, but the real costs are just hidden. You will always pay for hosting and a domain (up to 100 € annually). And if you want a custom design, or at least a template that not every other website has, you will have to pay for a better template . But most importantly, it will cost you time . If you know how to create websites, it might be "just" 20 to 50 hours. If you've never made one before, it will definitely be at least hundreds of hours for the result to be worth something. When I say "worth something", it can be nice, but that doesn't mean it will also achieve its goals. But if you don't have high ambitions with the website, you can easily calculate how much you value your time, and it might be a good choice for you.
1.2 Company presentation:
A website for small and medium-sized businesses typically ranges from 1,750 to 4,500 € . The price depends on the complexity and the number of subpages. If the website is also supposed to bring in customers, it is very important to analyze the target audience and their purchasing behavior well.
Keep in mind that even the best website needs the right marketing strategy to attract visitors/customers.
A) You can either aim for traffic from search engines like Google, which will require effort and plenty of time to create quality content. Roughly six months of hard work.
B) Or you need to invest in advertising. Whether on Google, Seznam, or even on social networks.
If you have something to offer and your goal is to have thousands of users visiting daily, then definitely prepare an amount from 5,000 € upwards . There's no room for mistakes here.
1.3 E-shop:
Prices of online stores can range from 2,500 € to more than 25,000 € , depending on the assortment, payment methods, and other features.
2. How it influences the Price of a Website
2.1 Design:
Template : You can buy a pre-made template for anywhere from 0 to 500 € . However, it might be more limited in terms of customization options. But if you choose the right template for your business model, it can be a good way to save money.
Custom-made design : A custom design from a graphic designer can cost f rom 750 to 7,500 € , depending on its complexity. As with everything, you pay more for quality. Expect from the designer not just a beautiful design, but mainly one that's fine-tuned from the perspective of a visitor/buyer/prospective client, etc.
2.2 Functionality and Custom Coding:
Every special feature, such as forms, reservation systems, or interactive elements, increases the price. Prices for custom coding typically range from 250 to 2,500 € and more per individual feature, depending on its scope. Although this isn't my case, nowadays most websites are made by people who can't code. However, if you need something that a "clickable" website creation platform doesn't offer, you'll still need a programmer.
2.3 Content:
If you have your own texts and photos, you'll save money. If you need copywriting or professional photos, the price can increase by approximately 250 to 2,500 € . It depends on how much of what and in what quality you need.
2.4 Search Engine Optimization (SEO):
Basic SEO might be included in the package, and for me, it's a fundamental part of every website. However, extensive SEO strategies and optimization can cost from 500 to 2,500 € and more. In the long run, investing in SEO is significantly cheaper than advertising.
2.5 Maintenance and Updates:
Annual fees for maintenance and updates typically range from 100 to 500 € . For instance, WordPress websites need to be updated every 3 to 4 months. I'm referring to background updates, i.e., plugins and licenses. With websites from me , you won't face this issue. They are built on custom coding, not on someone else's plugins.
In Conclusion
The price of a website can vary greatly and depends on your specific needs and desires. It's essential to have a clear idea of what you expect from the website and to communicate with the developer or agency. Be prepared for compromises between your budget and the features you want on the site.
An experienced web developer will always advise you on what's genuinely necessary for the website and what's somewhat extra. Some things might seem cool to clients, but in reality, they might be confusing for visitors. Keep your websites uncluttered ;)
And remember - cheaper doesn't always mean better! Investing in a quality website will pay off in the form of increased customer interest and a better online presentation.
I set myself the goal of being as transparent as possible regarding prices. Even though each project is different, whether in terms of size or customer requirements, for orientation, I list the prices of implemented projects for each published project.
Take a look at how much a very small website for electricians cost elektro-srnak .
About the author
Ondřej Kriška
I build custom websites and applications. On my own, on my own code.
I spent eighteen years in Toyota logistics. Today I build websites, e-shops and custom applications for small and mid-sized companies. I quote the price up front and you deal with me directly.
LinkedIn
Write to Ondřej
Dealing with a website or an application?
Tell me what you need. I will get back to you within two working days and tell you whether I can help.
Write to Ondřej
I help entrepreneurs succeed in the online world
Book a free consultation
Home
Projects
Pricing
Blog
About
Contact
© 2026 ONDRAWEB — All rights reserved.
+420 728 697 712
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Let's talk
Free consultation — no commitment, no registration.
{ if (!val) { $refs.video.pause(); $refs.video.currentTime = 0; playing = false; } })"
>
Pick a consultation slot
Free. No commitment.
Mind a few cookies?
I only measure a few numbers about what works on the site. No data selling.
See the cookie policy .
Decline
Accept all
✕