Privacy Policy — Ondřej Kriška
Home
Projects
Pricing
Blog
About
Contact
CZ
EN
DE
Book a consultation
CZ
EN
DE
Home
Projects
Pricing
Blog
About
Contact
Book a consultation
💬
Enquiry
PRIVACY POLICY
Plain English, GDPR-grade.
Your data is yours .
What I collect, why I collect it, and how I protect it. No legalese.
In short
I only collect data you send me (form, email, phone).
I never share it with third parties for marketing — it is used only to reply to your inquiry.
Web analytics is anonymous (GA4 without ad cookies, Clarity).
You can request deletion any time: ok@ondraweb.cz.
Effective date: May 6, 2026
The website (hereinafter "the Service") is operated by entrepreneur Ondřej Kriška (hereinafter "the operator" or "ONDRAWEB").
This page informs you of our policies regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of personal data when you use our Service.
Collection and use of information
We collect several different types of information for various purposes to provide and improve our Service to you.
Types of data collected
Personal data
While using our Service, we may ask you to provide us with certain personally identifiable information that can be used to contact or identify you. Personally identifiable information may include:
Email address
Phone number
Address, state, zip code, city
Cookies and usage data
Usage data
We may also collect information how the Service is accessed and used. This usage data may include information such as your computer's Internet Protocol address (e.g. IP address), browser type, the pages of our Service that you visit, the time and date of your visit.
Tracking & cookies data
We use cookies and similar tracking technologies to track activity on our Service. Cookies are files with a small amount of data. Cookies are sent to your browser from a website and stored on your device.
Use of data
ONDRAWEB uses the collected data for various purposes:
To provide and maintain the Service
To notify you about changes to our Service
To provide customer care and support
To monitor the usage of the Service
To detect, prevent and address technical issues
Security of data
The security of your data is important to us. While we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your Personal Data, we cannot guarantee its absolute security.
Analytics
Google Analytics: A web analytics service used to track and analyse how our Service is used.
Children's privacy
Our Service does not address anyone under the age of 18. We do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from anyone under the age of 18.
Changes to this Privacy Policy
We may update our Privacy Policy from time to time. We will notify you of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page.
Contact us
By email: ok@ondraweb.cz
© 2026 ONDRAWEB — All rights reserved.
+420 728 697 712
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Let's talk
Free consultation — no commitment, no registration.
{ if (!val) { $refs.video.pause(); $refs.video.currentTime = 0; playing = false; } })"
>
Pick a consultation slot
Free. No commitment.
Mind a few cookies?
I only measure a few numbers about what works on the site. No data selling.
See the cookie policy .
Decline
Accept all
✕