Custom websites and web applications | ONDRAWEB
Home
Projects
Pricing
Blog
About
Contact
CZ
EN
DE
Book a consultation
CZ
EN
DE
Home
Projects
Pricing
Blog
About
Contact
Book a consultation
💬
Enquiry
CUSTOM WEB — For businesses that know the difference.
Websites and applications built to fit .
I build them myself, on my own code.
I am Ondřej Kriška, an experienced developer. You work with me directly — no agency, no middlemen. I build websites to run for years without tying you up in maintenance.
— Ondřej Kriška
Tell me what you need
I reply within two working days. No commitment, we just go through what makes sense.
Websites running in the real world
These are live projects you can open right now. Click through and explore them.
barana.cz
01
Bioclimatic pergolas, gates and fences
Open the live site →
zubniprovazek.cz
02
Dental practice for children and adults
Open the live site →
shop.pitarena.cz
03
E-shop with pit bikes and spare parts
Open the live site →
5.0 (21 reviews on Google + Firmy.cz)
23+ delivered projects
18 years of experience
Reply within 24 hours
TOP firma 2025 on Firmy.cz
MAKOplast
Yolk Studio
BARANA s.r.o.
Nové Interiéry s.r.o.
Zubní Provázek
Autokemp Veselka
PitAréna
How I build websites
Every project starts with understanding your business. I write custom code from the ground up, so the site follows how your company actually works. You speak directly with me from the first message through launch and beyond.
What that spares you
The two things I see most often on web projects.
01
A template sold as a custom solution
A supplier reuses a layout they have already used five times and drops in your text and logo. The result looks professional — until you open a competitor's website and find the same sections and the same words. On top of that, the platform keeps you on a monthly subscription you cannot take with you.
This is not the case where other would-be web designers just fill templates with data for outrageous fees.
— Petr Kroulík, Nové Interiéry s.r.o.
02
You never speak with the person who builds the site
The person selling you the website isn't building it. The people building it aren't talking to you. Context and intent get lost in the middle — and the result doesn't match what you wanted.
What I build — custom websites, apps and e-shops
01
Custom websites
A presentation website that sets you apart from template-driven competition and clearly explains what you do and how you differ.
Custom code — no WordPress, no templates
Conversion-focused structure built around your business
Maintenance-free with fast load times
02
Web applications
Internal systems, customer portals and tracking tools built around how your operation actually runs.
Process design before a single line of code
Integrations with your existing tools
Custom admin without monthly licence fees
03
E-shops
An e-shop built around your product — without paying for plugins and themes every month.
Checkout and catalogue designed for your range
Integrations with accounting, couriers and payment gateways
No monthly platform fees
I also handle SEO, graphic design and social media management — see the pricing or get in touch .
Selected projects
01
PitArena
Training slots are booked months ahead — bookings, vouchers and event sign-ups all run through the web without manual handling.
See the project →
02
BARANA
A standalone page built for paid advertising — visitors grasp the offer without picking up the phone.
See the project →
03
Nové interiéry
The site pre-filters irrelevant enquiries and acts as the first sales meeting — the client reports a noticeably stronger brand credibility.
See the project →
All projects →
What will it cost?
Most projects I build land between €2,200 and €6,000. If you are looking for a website under €800, I am not the right supplier for you and I will tell you so straight away. Below are indicative entry prices for three levels — you receive an exact written quote after a short consultation.
Standard Most common choice
€2,200
Multilingual site with blog, conversion tracking and a booking system.
Custom
from €3,800
E-shop, web application or a complex custom portal.
Starter
€1,000
An exception, not the standard entry point: up to 5-page presentation site for sole traders. I take it on only where a larger scope makes no sense.
Detailed pricing →
Why work with me
For 18 years I ran projects at Toyota where the production line was not allowed to stop. I now apply those same principles — exact specification, analysis, verification — to web projects. I work solo: you talk directly to me from the first consultation through launch and beyond.
01
Custom code, no templates
I build to your business — not from a template your competitors have already used.
02
Price upfront
You receive a specification with an exact price before work begins. What's in the specification is on the invoice.
03
Direct contact
You communicate with me directly — no salesperson, no coordinator, no ticket system.
04
Built to last
Maintenance-free operation without WordPress updates and plugins — no monthly security patching.
Under the hood
The website I build for you looks like this on the inside too. These aren't marketing lines — everything below can be verified right on the page you're on.
Custom code
No WordPress, no page builder, no platform. The page is written from scratch and runs without plugins that would need monthly updates.
Images tailored to your screen
Every image here exists in seven sizes and the efficient AVIF format. Your browser downloaded only the one your display actually needs.
Design held together by a system
Colours, type and spacing aren't governed by a template but by a custom system of variables. That's why nothing sticks out — and why you can play with it below.
This page loaded for you in
— measured just now, in your browser.
From first message to a launched website — 4 clear steps.
01
Consultation 60 min, within a week
I start with a consultation, not a form. I need to understand your business, your customers and what the website should actually do — bring contacts, sell a product or build trust.
He truly listened to my needs and then turned them into something I was completely satisfied with.
— Magda Pernicová, Realiťačky v akci
02
Specification 2–5 days
Before I start working, you'll receive a written specification: what will be on the website, how many pages, what technology and how much it will cost. No surprises on the invoice. I'll estimate the delivery date realistically — always upfront, never retrospectively.
He rigorously analyses the situation and wants to understand current processes. He collects requirements from clients and explores visions for the future.
— Jan Stybor, Head of Project Department, Toyota
Note on timelines: a website doesn't only depend on my side. Approvals, materials from the client and feedback are part of the process. The timeline is always an estimate, not a binding commitment — and I say that openly from the start.
03
Build 3–10 weeks
I keep you informed about progress and involve you in key decisions. The result reflects what you wanted — because I don't wait until the end of the project to find out.
04
Launch and support by the next business day
Once you approve deployment, the site usually goes live within one business day. After launch I stay available — small tweaks, technical questions and analytics help go through me directly, with no ticket and no waiting.
Launch within 1 business day of approval.
Let's jump straight to step 1.
Book a consultation
What my clients say about working together.
01
S potěšením mohu poskytnout tuto referenci pro Ondřeje Krišku, který pracoval v naší společnosti Toyota 18 let. Jednou z nejsilnějších stránek Ondry je velká chuť rozvíjet se, což je viditelné na jeho výsledcích.
Pavel Baudyš — Toyota, ředitel řízení výroby, montáže a logistiky Google
02
Oceňuji vysokou odbornost a profesionalitu. Postupnými kroky jsme odladili očekávání, realitu a na základě rad i optimalizaci toku dat. Zažil jsem předčená očekávání v praxi. Z mé strany jednoznačně doporučení na spolupráci.
Rostislav Toman — Tradiční výroba pralinek, s.r.o., Manager Google
03
Tenhle web meister dělá stránky pro nás a můžu jenom vřele doporučit. Výborná komunikace, kvalitně odvedená práce, spoustu inovativních, praktických nápadů.
Stanislav Holcmann — Pitbike Aréna, majitel Firmy.cz
04
Chtěli jsme mít pro naši firmu kvalitní a odlišné webové stránky. Díky individuálnímu přístupu, flexibilitě a profesionalitě odpovídá výsledek našim představám. Vřele doporučuji.
Hana Jaskmanická — VP INDUSTRY, výkonná ředitelka Google
05
Služby pana Ondřeje Krišky vřele doporučuji. Jedná rychle a efektivně. Byl to pro mě velký rozdíl mezi předchozím IT dodavatelem. Je dobře, že v této zemi máme i takové odborníky.
Ing. Ivo Štěpánek — J. K. fire and safety consulting, podnikatel v oblasti BOZP Google
06
S Ondrou je skvělá spolupráce. Vždy se snaží udělat pro klienty maximum. Odvedl perfektní práci. Rozhodně má moje doporučení.
Václav Pešice — Upstyle systems, software developer Google
Generator versus your business
A template is quick to build. Leads aren't.
Today's generators can click a layout together and drop in text and images. What they can't do: work out who you sell to, why a customer should choose you, or where prospects drop off. A website built to sell starts with the second part.
Non-expert + AI
Quick result.
Generic, unvalidated, interchangeable
Without customer and competitor research
Without a strategy for what the site says and in what order
Nice-looking — identical to dozens of others
An AI website makes sense when you're testing an idea without commitment.
Expert + AI
Just as fast where it makes sense. And without a generic result.
Built on strategy, data and your customers
Control and a result someone is accountable for
Content designed so people stay and contact you
A website that differs from competitors — intentionally
If you run a business, this is a difference your customers will notice.
I use AI as a tool — it cuts down on routine work. Decisions about what the site should say, to whom, and in what order are not something it can make for you. That work has to be done before the website is built.
18 years at Toyota. Then I left.
The automotive industry taught me one thing: behind every top result there are always the same steps. Analysis, design, testing, verification — and then again. No shortcuts, no guesses. Principles that work regardless of the industry.
I now apply these principles to every web project. You'll notice it at the first consultation, in the specification you receive before work begins — and in the result.
One of Ondřej's greatest strengths is his strong desire to develop — not just meeting customer needs, but exceeding their expectations.
— Pavel Baudyš, Director of Manufacturing, Assembly & Logistics, Toyota Motor Manufacturing Czech Republic (2024)
Two things you can rely on.
01
Price upfront
You'll receive a specification with an exact price before work begins. What's in the specification is on the invoice. No extra costs, no surprises.
02
Direct contact always
You communicate directly with me — not a salesperson or coordinator. Call any time. In the vast majority of cases I'll pick up immediately.
Frequently asked questions
You are one person. What if you get ill or quit?
A fair concern — on a project this size it is the most important question. The site does not run on a platform you could not leave: it is custom code on ordinary web hosting. You can hold the hosting admin and FTP credentials the whole time — just ask for them. Once the project is paid in full the code is yours; I hand it over whenever you ask, and any developer can carry on with it — if documentation is needed for the handover, I will write it. I do not keep round-the-clock availability and I will not claim otherwise. What I do guarantee is that nothing stays locked up with me.
What will it cost?
See the pricing anchor above for indicative entry prices — Starter €1,000, Standard €2,200, Custom from €3,800. You get an exact written quote after a short consultation, and the invoice matches the specification line by line.
How long does it take?
From first message to a launched site typically 4–12 weeks — a week for consultation, 2–5 days for the specification, 3–10 weeks for the build, and launch by the next business day after approval. The detailed timeline for your project goes into the specification.
What if I'm not happy with the result?
I work in short iterations and send progress previews — I don't wait until the end of the project to find out whether it fits. If something is off, we fix it right away, not after the invoice. What's in the specification, I deliver.
What does "maintenance-free" mean?
No WordPress, no plugins, no monthly security updates. The site runs on custom code — it just works, doesn't need regular patching and doesn't break from template collisions. Small content changes go through me directly, with no ticket.
Tell me what you need
Describe briefly what you are dealing with. I reply within two business days and we will go through what makes sense, with no obligation. If we turn out not to be a fit, I will tell you straight.
Thanks to the individual approach, flexibility and professionalism, the result matches our expectations.
— Hana Jaskmanická, Executive Director, VP Industry
Full name *
Email *
Phone (optional)
What do you need solved? *
Send enquiry
Sending…
Or email me at ok@ondraweb.cz. I reply personally, not through a form robot.
By submitting you agree to processing of personal data in line with the privacy policy .
© 2026 ONDRAWEB — All rights reserved.
+420 728 697 712
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Let's talk
Free consultation — no commitment, no registration.
{ if (!val) { $refs.video.pause(); $refs.video.currentTime = 0; playing = false; } })"
>
Pick a consultation slot
Free. No commitment.
Mind a few cookies?
I only measure a few numbers about what works on the site. No data selling.
See the cookie policy .
Decline
Accept all
✕